# NLP-Final-Project
Breast cancer research is a rapidly developing field that generates a vast number of publications and findings daily. The sheer volume of papers and the speed at which they are published creates a challenge for keeping medical professionals up to date with the latest research. In this project, we propose a sequential sentence classification model for automatically categorizing sentences from breast cancer medical abstracts into predefined categories: ‘background', 'objective', 'methods', 'results', and 'conclusions'. The objective is to accurately classify abstract sentences to reduce the time required for locating relevant information. We used two datasets: a dataset of 3990 abstracts and a larger dataset of 9402 to train and evaluate our system model. The system model utilizes a BERT-based Universal Sentence Encoder from TensorFlow Hub, a self-attention block stream, and two feedforward streams to perform classification. This model leverages the sequential nature of the text to capture contextual information and make accurate predictions. The result of our model demonstrates promising performance with a weighted average F-1 Score of 84\%. Notably, sentences from the `background' and `objective’' categories often overlap in content, leading to confusion in classification. Our proposed sequential sentence classification approach has the potential to significantly improve the efficiency of extracting information from medical abstracts, thereby aiding medical care of cancer patients by providing a faster and more productive channel of information lookup and retrieval. ref: https://www.kaggle.com/code/matthewjansen/nlp-medical-abstract-segmentation
